EDUC 580 Children’s and Adolescents’ Literature in the Reading Program

Artifact Description
	The artifact that I have chosen for EDUC 580 Children’s and Adolescents’ Literature in the Reading Program is my multimedia project. For my multimedia project, my students created an Infographic. The students chose an animal that they wanted to research. The students used books along with the internet to research. While researching, the students had to find physical features, what they eat, where they live, and other choice facts. After researching, the students typed their information, printed pictures that matched their facts, and created a poster that was shared with the entire school. This artifact demonstrates my proficiency with Wisconsin Teacher Standards 4 and 10 along with InTASC Standards 3 and 10. 

Infographic

Impact on Student Learning
	While completing the infographic, the students in my class learned some valuable, life-long skills. They learned how to find effective, appropriate websites that gave them the information they were looking for. They practiced reading non-fiction literature using the non-fiction text features correctly. In addition, they practiced their typing and editing skills. The students also had the opportunity to create an eye-catching poster that displayed the information they had found. Lastly, they practiced the skill of presenting to a wide variety of people.

Professional Growth
	My school districted adopted a new reading curriculum this year. Along with the new reading curriculum came new, exciting projects for the students to do. One of the projects that was incorporated into the new reading curriculum was an infographic. My teammates and I did not know what an infographic was so we did some research. While conducting our research, we learned that an infographic was a visual image such as a chart or diagram used to represent information or data. The PBS website had a plethora of animal infographic examples.
	The multimedia project reminded me that I am constantly learning new information. I shared with my students that I had to research what an infographic was which demonstrated to them that learning is life-long. Because this was a new project for me, I had to spend a lot of time planning how I was going to effective present the information to my students. I created a packet containing examples and what they needed to take notes on. I also researched websites that would give my students appropriate information in case they were having trouble finding certain facts. 
	While the students were conducting their research, I also researched an animal so I could create a sample infographic with them. By doing this, I was able to show my students appropriate researching and note-taking techniques along with what a finished product would look like. This helped me to grow as an educator, because I was able to better support the students due to the fact that I was doing the project with them. When I ran into problems, I informed my students about them and then directed them so that they wouldn’t run into the same problems that I did. We were learning together.

Application of Standards
Wisconsin Standard 4: The teacher understands and uses a variety of instructional strategies, including the use of technology, to encourage children’s development of critical thinking, problem solving and performance skills. While completing this project, I instructed the students as a whole group while presenting the project with examples and individually during conferences throughout the project to make sure they were on track. The students had the opportunity to use books and websites to research. They also typed their research. In addition, they were able to use their artistic talents to create their display. Lastly, they presented their information teachers and a variety of students.
Wisconsin Standard 10: The teacher fosters relationships with school colleagues, parents and agencies in the larger community to support pupil learning and well-being and who acts with integrity, fairness and in an ethical manner. When my students finished creating their display, I invited the other grades to come and see our infographics. I sent them options of dates and times for them to come and see the infographics with their students. I also took pictures of the students presenting their infographics and of the students with their individual infographic and emailed them to the parents. This way the parents could see the hard work their child was doing at school.
InTASC Standard 3: The teacher works with others to create environments that support individual and collaborative learning, and that encourage positive social interaction, active engagement in learning, and self motivation. By having the students present their infographics to other grade levels, we continued the sense of community at our school, because everybody saw what we worked on and the hard work that the students put into it. Also, when researching, the students helped each by suggesting websites that they found useful. In addition, while they were creating their displays, the students helped each other lay everything out so it was visually appealing. This positive environment was established during the first week of school. Because this type of environment was created, I am able to have my students collaboratively work together to complete projects.
InTASC Standard 10: The teacher seeks appropriate leadership roles and opportunities to take responsibility for student learning, to collaborate with learners, families, colleagues, other school professionals, and community members to ensure learner growth, and to advance the profession. I took the initiative to invite the rest of the school to come and look at my students’ hard work. Not only did other students come to see their work, I invited all staff members in the building. The principal, speech & language teacher, special education teachers, physical therapist, paraprofessionals, and other staff members attended the showings to show support for the students they also work with. In addition, I am my grades representation on our Vertical Team, and I presented the work of my students to the other team members. This sparked discussions of interesting projects that are being done in other grades and making sure that we are always sharing the awesome learning that is going in our classrooms.


