EDUC 650 Content Reading and Study Strategies

Artifact Description
	The artifact that I have chosen for EDUC 650 Content Reading and Study Strategies is my constructivist unit about Native Americans of Wisconsin. The unit started with a scroll walk where the students had to answer questions about what they thought they knew about Native Americans. Then we read from the Wisconsin Journeys book about the first people in Wisconsin. After that, the students were assigned a Native American tribe and had to research the tribe and create a Powerpoint of the information. To conclude the unit, the students presented their Powerpoints to the class. This artifact demonstrates my proficiency with Wisconsin Teacher Standard 5 along with InTASC Standards 4 and 5. 

Constructivist Unit: Native Americans of Wisconsin

Impact on Student Learning
	During this unit, the students practiced some very important life-long skills—working cooperatively in a group, creating a visual presentation, and presenting to a group of their peers. This was the first multi-day group project that my students had to complete so they had to quickly figure out how to work effectively as a group so that they could finish the project on time. They learned to make decisions as a group so that all the work got done and so that everybody was participating. 
	In addition to learning to work effectively in a group, the students had to prepare and present their project to their peers. They had to practice who was going to say what and also speaking to their audience, not the SmartBoard. Speaking to their audience was a difficult skill for the students. We will continue to work on it during the school year.

Professional Growth
When creating this unit, I wanted to make sure my students would be engaged in their learning and in charge of their learning. I knew if I made it hands-on the students would be engaged, but I struggled with allowing the students to be in charge of their learning. I wasn’t sure if the students would gain all the knowledge I wanted them to if I didn’t deliver the information myself. However, because this was a constructivist unit, I needed the knowledge to be constructed by the students, not transmitted by me. It took a lot of patience and guidance to make sure my students obtained the information that I wanted them to, but it was worth it.
After having my students construct their own knowledge with my guidance, I think they learned more than I could have taught them. They learned the content, and they also learned how to find the answers they were looking for. By taking a step back as a teacher, I was able to guide my students to being independent researchers.
Even though I was nervous about giving my students more freedom to construct their own knowledge, it was worth it. I look forward to designing more constructivist units for my students. 

Application of Standards
Wisconsin Standard 5: The teacher uses an understanding of individual and group motivation and behavior to create a learning environment that encourages positive social interaction, active engagement in learning, and self-motivation. When creating this unit, I knew that my students were going to be working in groups to research different Wisconsin Native American tribes. I wanted to create groups that would work well together, and I wanted to create groups where the students would learn from one another. Therefore, I took into account my students’ academic and social strengths and weaknesses in order to create groups that I hoped would be good fits. By creating good fit groups, all the students were engaged and able to effectively and cooperatively work in their groups.
InTASC Standard 4: The teacher understands the central concepts, tools of inquiry, and structures of the discipline(s) he or she teaches and creates learning experiences that make the discipline accessible and meaningful for learners to assure mastery of the content. When preparing for this unit, I made sure that there were plenty of resources so the students could obtain the required knowledge for the project. I also created a note-taking system to make sure the students researched all the ideas I wanted them to and to help them take notes in an organized manner since this was one of their first research projects. In addition, I designed a sample Powerpoint so the students knew what information I wanted in the Powerpoint. With the sample Powerpoint, I was also able to show the students how to navigate Powerpoint.
InTASC Standard 5: The teacher understands how to connect concepts and use differing perspectives to engage learners in critical thinking, creativity, and collaborative problem solving related to authentic local and global issues. During this unit, the students learned about different Wisconsin Native American tribes. They learned about the past and the present of their tribe from different viewpoints (researchers and tribal members). When learning about the past and the present, one of the topics that was discussed was how Native American tribes have been treated. After learning about their tribe, they had to write an opinion piece about whether they would like to be part of the tribe or not. When writing their opinion piece, they had to incorporate text evidence that supported their opinions. 




