EDUC 529 Assessment and Treatment of Reading Difficulties & EDUC 683 Practicum

Artifact Description
	The artifact that I have chosen for EDUC 529 Assessment and Treatment of Reading Difficulties & EDUC 683 Practicum is my case study. I worked with a kindergartener for 15 tutoring sessions. During the tutoring sessions, I provided enrichment activities in the areas of word study, reading comprehension, and reading fluency. The case study includes assessment results, interpretation of the results, and recommendations for continued academic success. This artifact demonstrates my proficiency with Wisconsin Teacher Standards 7, 8, and 9 along with InTASC Standard 9. During the completion of the case study, I was able to apply strategies that I had learned during the course of my Reading 316 license.

Case Study

Impact on Student Learning
	The student that I worked with during the case study grew in the areas of word study, comprehension, and fluency. He increased his words per minute, his ability to retell the story, and his ability to answer comprehension questions. He also was able to identify most consonant digraphs and blends after the tutoring sessions. His love for learning also continued to grow during our tutoring sessions.
	In addition to the growth of my case study student, I was able to see growth in my classroom especially during my WIN Time group (intervention group). I was able to apply the Guided Reading and Discussion Card strategies discussed in Intervention Strategies to Follow Informal Reading Inventory Assessment by JoAnne Schudt Caldwell and Lauren Leslie. These strategies helped me to deliver more effective instruction in order to help my students make academic gains.

Professional Growth
While participating in the case study, I had the opportunity to administer the QRI-5 and Words Their Way Spelling Inventory to a kindergarten. After administering the assessments, I analyzed them and decided upon the areas to focus on with my student. I conducted nine tutoring sessions. These tutoring sessions focused on the skills that I identified from the assessments. To conclude, I administered post-assessments for the QRI-5 and Words Their Way Spelling Inventory. From the post-assessments, I was able to give recommendations so that the student would be able to continue to make academic gains during the 2015-2016 school year.
	After conducting pre- and post-assessments and tutoring sessions, I feel confident in my ability to help students grow as readers. During the case study, I had to find resources to meet the needs of my student, and then effectively implement them. This meant doing research on different resources to find the best ones and preparing lesson plans to properly use the resources with my student. 
	I have gathered many resources to keep in my classroom tool box in order to help my students succeed whether I’m a classroom teacher or reading teaching. The strategies and skills that I have learned will benefit all students. I will be able to correctly identify the reading deficiencies of my students and then implement interventions in order to decrease these deficiencies. I will also be able to be a resource for my district to help teachers analyze assessments and find appropriate interventions to use.
	Overall, I found the case study to be very rewarding. It was hard work, but I feel like a more competent teacher in the area of reading assessments and interventions. The information and experiences from the case study will benefit me, my students, and my colleagues. 

Application of Standards
Wisconsin Standard 7: The teacher organizes and plans systematic instruction based upon knowledge of subject matter, pupils, the community and curriculum goals. After completing the pre-assessments of Words Their Way Spelling Inventory and QRI-5, I created lesson plans that built on skills my student already had and continued to take him further as a learner. The same book was used for 3 tutoring sessions and different skills were strengthened each time the book was read. The same word list and fluency activities were also used for 3 tutoring sessions. At the end of each session, I evaluated each activity for its effectiveness and how I could improve my instruction. By delivering my instruction in this manner, my student was able to become familiar with books and activities which helped him make academic gains during our tutoring sessions.
Wisconsin Standard 8: The teacher understands and uses formal and informal assessment strategies to evaluate and ensure the continuous intellectual, social and physical development of the pupil. I began the case study by conducting 3 pre-assessments: Words Their Way Spelling Inventory, QRI-5 Word List, and QRI-5 Passage Reading. I also used these same assessments at the conclusion of the tutoring sessions to see if the student made gains during the tutoring sessions. In addition to these assessments, I also assessed the student each tutoring session through quick running records, word sorts, and fluency activities. Based on the assessments, I was able to adjust my instruction to best meet the needs of my student.
Wisconsin Standard 9: The teacher is a reflective practitioner who continually evaluates the effect of his or her choices and actions on pupils, parents, professionals in the learning community, and others, and who actively seeks out opportunities to grow professionally. After each tutoring session, I reflected upon how well the activities went, if my student enjoyed doing the activities, and how I could improve my instruction. By reflecting after each tutoring session, I was able to deliver effective instruction during the short amount of time. This helped my student to grow academically.
InTASC Standard 9: The teacher engages in ongoing professional learning and uses evidence to continually evaluate his/her practice, particularly the effects of his/her choices and actions on others (learners, families, other professionals, and the community), and adapts practice to meet the needs of each learner. During my tutoring sessions, I referred to strategies that I had learned during my Reading 316 license coursework. I referenced Intervention Strategies to Follow Informal Reading Inventory Assessment by JoAnne Schudt Caldwell and Lauren Leslie when planning my tutoring sessions. I also used resources like The Florida Center for Reading Research that my EDUC 529 classmates had presented during class. By consulting these resources, I was able to meet the needs of my student by finding activities that fit him as a learner.



