EDUC 681 Emergent Literacy PK-3

Artifact Description
	The artifact that I have chosen for EDUC 681 Emergent Literacy PK-3 is my oral development and interactive listening lesson. For my oral development and interactive listening lesson, I read the book Head to Toe by Eric Carle. While listening to the story, the students picked their favorite animal. Once the story was finished, the students had the opportunity to move around the room like their animal of choice. Then I recorded their animal and how they moved on chart paper. To conclude, the students completed the prompt “_____(name) _____(past tense verb) like a _____(animal)!” They also drew a picture that went with their sentence. This artifact demonstrates my proficiency with Wisconsin Teacher Standard 2 along with InTASC Standards 7 and 8. 

Oral Development and Interactive Listening Lesson

Impact on Student Learning
	During this lesson, my students had an opportunity to continue to develop their listening, gross motor, speaking, and fine motor skills. The students had to listen carefully in order to pick out their favorite animal from the book Head to Toe by Eric Carle. Also, the students practiced gross motor skills by moving around the room like their favorite animal from the book. In addition, the students had the opportunity to correctly use the past tense form of verbs when completing the prompt. At the end of the lesson, the students used their fine motor skills to write their own sentence and draw a picture.
	These skills are all important skills to develop during 4K. They will greatly benefit the students as they continue on their educational journey.  

Professional Growth
After substitute teaching for 1 year, I took a position at a day care teaching 4K. Going from subbing in elementary and middle classrooms to teaching 4K was a big adjustment. I had to do a lot of research about what was developmentally expected of 4 year olds. I also had to learn the curriculum that the day care was implementing. 
This lesson was a perfect opportunity for me to combine research that I had read regarding language development and the curriculum the day care had adopted. My students were able to succeed, because I created a lesson that was developmentally appropriate for them and it was also engaging. During this lesson, I learned that when integrating movement into lessons with 4 year olds I had to have strong classroom management in order to get them back on task to complete the lesson. I will continue to development my classroom management skills when teaching future lessons. I want to be able to bring the students back to the lessons quickly when movement breaks are involved. 

Application of Standards
Wisconsin Standard 2: The teacher understands how children with broad ranges of ability learn and provides instruction that supports their intellectual, social and personal development. While teaching this lesson, I had to take into account the wide range of abilities in my classroom. I incorporated a variety of activities to keep all the students engaged throughout the lesson. They students had the opportunity to listen, move around, speak, and write/draw. By allowing the students to participate in those activities, they were able to grow socially and personally at their own levels.
InTASC Standard 7: The teacher plans instruction that supports every student in meeting rigorous learning goals by drawing upon knowledge of content areas, curriculum, cross-disciplinary skills, and pedagogy, as well as knowledge of learners and the community context. When preparing for this lesson, I had to do research on what was developmentally appropriate for 4 year olds. I wanted to make sure that I knew what I could expect them to be able to do and not to do. After conducting research on language development in 4 year olds, I was able to create a lesson that met the learning goals of the curriculum the day care had in place. I made sure to incorporate a variety of skills that the students needed to master in order to have educational success. 
InTASC Standard 8: The teacher understands and uses a variety of instruction strategies to encourage learners to develop deep understanding of content areas and their connections, and to build skills to apply knowledge in meaningful ways. During this lesson, I included a variety of instructional strategies in order to meet the needs of all my students. I incorporated listening, gross motor, speaking, and fine motor skills. By using all of these strategies, the students were able to better understand the lesson. First they listened about how animals moved, then they moved like animals, next they talked about how animals moved, and finally they wrote and drew about how animals moved.




