EDUC 605 Inclusion of Students with Special Needs

Artifact Description
	The artifact that I have chosen for EDUC 605 Inclusion of Students with Special Needs is my readers’ theater Danielson lesson plan. For my reader’s theater lesson, my students were divided into small groups based on their reading fluency rates taken from the common 4th grade fluency assessment. Each group was given a readers’ theater appropriate for their fluency level. The students practiced for 15 minutes. The students with the lowest fluency rate practiced with a paraprofessional so they could have more individual attention when preparing for their presentation. After practicing their readers’ theaters, each group presented to the class. This artifact demonstrates my proficiency with Wisconsin Teacher Standards 2 and 3 along with InTASC Standard 2. 

Readers’ Theater Danielson Lesson Plan

Impact on Student Learning
	While participating in the readers’ theater lesson, the students in my class practiced reading skills that are essential to being a proficient reader. They practiced proper intonation, expression, and pacing when presenting their readers’ theaters. Also, when the readers’ theaters were complete, they practiced summarizing using the transition words first, then, next, after that, and finally. In addition to proficient reading skills, they practiced having confidence presenting in front of their peers. That skill will be a valuable, life-long skill that they will want to possess. 

Professional Growth
	When teaching lessons where I have multiple small groups to meet with, I struggle with making sure I give each group enough attention. During past lessons, I found myself spending too much time with some groups and not enough time with others. I knew that this was an area of instruction that I wanted to improve on, so for this lesson, I decided to carry around a timer with me to make sure I gave the same amount of time to each group. 
	This strategy worked for this lesson. I was able to meet with each group and give them feedback in order to strengthen their presentations. I think by being able to give each group feedback their readers’ theater presentations had more depth. I was able to give them ideas which enhanced their performance instead of them just reading the lines. As a group, we picked out spots in the readers’ theater that could use more expression, and I was also able to slow some of my fast readers down to an appropriate pace.
	I would like to continue to explore other strategies to help with time management with multiple groups, because I know the timer isn’t going to work each time. It’s always great to have many “tricks” in my “tool kit” in order to meet the needs of all of my students. 

Application of Standards
Wisconsin Standard 2: The teacher understands how children with broad ranges of ability learn and provides instruction that supports their intellectual, social and personal development. While teaching this lesson, the students were divided into groups based on their fluency levels. By doing this, I was able to give each group a readers’ theater that was appropriate for their level. This helped each group to succeed at their level and helped them become more confident readers especially in front of their peers. 
Wisconsin Standard 3: The teacher understands how pupils differ in their approaches to learning and the barriers that impede learning and can adapt instruction to meet the diverse needs of pupils, including those with disabilities and exceptionalities. During this lesson, the students were grouped into similar abilities according to their fluency rate. Each group was given a readers’ theater that was at their level. This way each group can feel successful during the lesson. I also had the lowest fluency group work with a paraprofessional so that they could have more individual attention when preparing their presentation. 
InTASC Standard 2: The teacher uses understanding of individual differences and diverse cultures and communities to ensure inclusive learning environments that enable each learner to meet high standards. By dividing the students into ability groups, I was able to have all the students performing to the best of their ability at their fluency level. Each group was performing readers’ theaters allowing everybody to do the same activity just at differentiated levels. All students were included in the activity and were able to succeed and feel confident especially in front of their peers.

