Final Reflection

	After completing all the course work for my Reading 316 License, I feel more knowledgeable in the area of teaching reading and am excited to integrate my new knowledge into my lessons. I have gathered many resources to keep in my classroom tool box in order to help my students succeed whether I’m a classroom teacher or reading teaching. The strategies and skills that I have learned will benefit all students. I will be able to correctly identify the reading deficiencies of my students and then implement interventions in order to decrease these deficiencies. I will also be able to create and implement a balanced reading program that includes a literacy element, vocabulary, weekly poems, writing, and either social studies or science. In addition, I will be able to be a resource for my district to help teachers analyze assessments and find appropriate interventions to use.
	
	During the different courses, I was able to create a variety of lessons that I was able to implement in my everyday teaching. From these lessons, I was able to develop other well-balanced lessons that would help my students succeed. For example, after EDUC 640, I created anchor charts to display in my classroom. These benefitted my students, because they have been able to refer to them when they have questions about what we are learning. They allow them to take responsibility for their learning by seeking out the answers independently.

	I especially found EDUC 529 & 683 to be particularly helpful. My school has implemented a school-wide intervention time each day. The assessments and interventions I learned during the class and practicum have helped me when planning interventions for my groups. I feel more knowledge and confident it what I should be teaching my students. I also feel that I am better able to deliver effective interventions due to the resources I was able to gather.

	While completing the various courses, not only did I meet the Wisconsin Teaching Standards and the InTASC Standards, I also strived to uphold Viterbo’s Core Values—Contemplation, Hospitality, Integrity, Stewardship, and Service. Throughout all of the courses, I was constantly reflection on how I could become a more effective practitioner. After each lesson I taught, I thought about what I could improve upon and where I should take my students next. This was especially prevalent during EDUC 529 & 683 when I was tutoring my two students. I reflected after each session so I could make the next session meaningful and beneficial for the students. Even though I have completed the courses, I still reflect everyday on my teaching so that I can become a better educator. In addition to being a reflective practitioner, I always welcomed each student, colleague, and peer with an open mind in hopes that we could work towards the common goal of making the students’ education the best it can possibly be. I was able to responsibly use the resources at hand in order to provide an effective education for my students. I also shared my resources with colleagues and peers so that they could implement them in their classrooms as well. Lastly, I am always honest with my students, colleagues, peers, and myself. I want everybody to understand exactly what is going on so that there is no confusion. This is especially important for my students when they are completing tasks. By being honest with my students and having a direct line of communication, they are able to effectively and efficiently complete the tasks at hand. Each day I post our objectives on the board and discuss them with my students so that they know what we are trying to accomplish and why we are trying to accomplish this. It is important to incorporate Contemplation, Hospitality, Integrity, Stewardship, and Service in our daily lives so that we can effectively complete the tasks at hand.     

	Overall, I found all the course work to be very rewarding. It was hard work, but I feel like a more competent teacher in the area of reading. The information and experiences that I have gained will benefit me, my students, and my colleagues. 
